We're moving to a core principle in defending
computer systems in really security in general,
and that's the principle of least privilege.
We'll learn more about the concept as well as how to apply it in your organization.
To start things off,
we'll define the principle of least privilege,
understand what it applies to,
then we'll break down a common scenario.
Where does the principle of least privilege fit
within our three component model of security?
It fits in prevention.
What is the principle of least privilege and who or what does it apply to?
The principle of least privilege in theory is actually quite simple.
Grant the lowest level of access that is required to accomplish the task.
This contributes to our defense and depth,
by removing unnecessary access when possible.
This applies to people in a form of physical computer and data access.
It applies to devices.
Remember, that computer accounts have permissions as well.
Network traffic, both external and internal needs to be routed
properly and have the correct access controls to minimize the attack surface.
Database permissions should be audited frequently to ensure that
the tables and records have the minimum level of access required.
Many applications have permissions on the hosting server,
as well as the aforementioned databases.
Be sure to review documentation and only
allow the minimum level of access needed to run properly.
Here, we have a typical departmental directory accounting.
Most accounting departments have at least two groups,
accounts payable and accounts receivable.
Lynn works in accounting,
but their primary role is in accounts payable.
However, they also need access to view documents in the accounts receivable folder.
The principle of least privilege applied here would
give Lynn read and write access to the accounts
payable folder while giving them read-only access to the accounts receivable folder.